My data visualizations make use of two datasets from the American Community Survey on the rate of bike commuters by state and city over time. The first dataset details how the rate of bike commuters within each state in 2006 and 2011. The second dataset lists 25 cities with the highest rates of bike commuters and their associated rates. My three visualizations convey to the viewer the dynamic state of bike commuting across space. The intended audience is anyone interested in bike commuting, and could be used by policymakers on the state-level to get a broad idea of how their state is doing in terms of bike infrastructure. Taken together, the three components provide information on where bike commuting is on the rise in the US.  


The first component is a map that compares the changing rates of bike commuters across states. The map reveals that states on the West Coast and in the Northeast have rising rates of bike commuters, while states further from the coasts have falling rates of bike commuters in the time period measured. Cities ranked in the top 10 highest rates of bike commuting have circles around them, with the radius of the circle reflecting the rate of bike commuters. When the viewer hovers over the circle they can see the name of the city and the rate of commuters. The city-view provides a more detailed story than the state view; for example, Minnesota has a falling rate of bike commuters, but Minneapolis is ranked number two for the highest rate of bike commuters.
It’s imaginable that someone looking at the map would want further details on how drastically the rate of bike commuters is falling or rising over time. This information is achieved from the second chart, a horizontal bar chart displaying the rate of change in rates of bike commuters between 2006 and 2015. This map provides the capability to see, in state-order or descending-order, the rate of change in bike commuters over time. When the viewer hovers of each bar, the state name appears above the radio button along with the exact percentage.


Finally, the line chart displays the percentages of bike commuters over time. This chart is refines the viewer’s understanding of how many bike commuters exist in each state. For example, from the previous two charts presented, the viewer might notice that Hawaii and New York have the same percentage increase of bike commuters, and conclude that the two states have a similar profile of bike commuters. However, by selecting the two states in line chart, it’s revealed that Illinois has a considerably lower rate of bike commuters over time (average of 3.6%) relative to New York (average of 6.8%). The transition highlights the change in baseline percentages over time.


Because the goal of the three components is to inform the viewer of the state of bike commuting, the graphs are presented as exploration tools. Rather than providing a strong narrative on where bike commuting is most successful, the three components allow the viewer to interact with the information and draw her own conclusions surrounding the current state of bike commuting.
